you are only as morally pure as the
people you make excuses for I'm in a
position now where I get to look around
the digital round table of my fellow
beacon activists and ask why are you
making excuses for this guy I mean the
current example Jackal wacko Vigano he's
not the worst he's not the first he's
not the last back when it was
durianrider and freely doing
unconscionable thing as it was like wait
wait wait wait why are you making
excuses for this guy you're only as
morally pure as the people you think
excuses for quote me on that all right
I don't know I just saw a comment from
foot soldier on Jaco wackos video again
we've seen him commenting on his own
channel making videos but why are you
making excuses this guy yeah
a more harmless example when Nina and
Randa meet a commercial for Taco Bell
actively advertising a product that had
beef and cheese and chicken was a combo
deal it wasn't as one type of type of
taco as I recall
um what when she did advertising Nina
ran it what they do that why are you
making excuses for it and I'm not even
saying you have to condemn these people
why are you actively making excuses to
me it's really kind of shocking even
with the low expectations I have of
somebody like footsoldier that he
specifically says that Jaco is correct
about the ethical side of his argument
that so he says well you're you're
you're right about your says you're also
right about the ethics what do mean also
well what else is he right about and of
course the ethical side of the argument
is where he's most obviously flagrantly
laughably wrong some problems can be
well understood in terms of probability
and in some cases talking about
probability is very misleading is there
a chance is there a probability that you
are one of the special people on planet
earth who really cannot be vegan and and
be healthy it's one in a million
it's one in 10 million
but you know what yes there is a
probability for that it's more than zero
okay
gonna digress real quick to put a human
face on this some of you heard this
story before there was a young woman I
kind of flirted with we kind of dated
like we went out for dinner but never
really dated okay mmm she wasn't smart
enough for me but some degree of
connection there she was allergic to all
legumes she couldn't eat any beans she
couldn't eat she had she almost died
when an Indian restaurant served her a
flatbread that had I think powdered
chickpeas in the like in the dough you
know it's something like this she ate a
bean of any kind she couldn't eat
lentils she couldn't eat chickpeas she
couldn't eat anything and her heart
would stop beating okay
now I'm still not saying it's impossible
for her to be vegan be difficult and you
know so if we had this weird situation
where I mean I remember one point she
actually grabbed me while I was walking
on the sidewalk she was in a bar another
time she came to where I was living she
was drunk she was kind of like with me
and hitting on me see we never dated
but there were some pretty clear signs
of interest from her uh-huh and I you
know I was never really convinced but I
remember saying to her that one time we
went to dinner together it was kind of a
running Jack running gag and dinner I
said to her look I'm not quitting beans
for you look if this works out if we get
married and have kids this goes great
I'm not quitting beets I I live on beans
and I'm not gonna cry so obviously the
way joking around but I mean in her case
she had a food allergy that's deadly
serious and at least hypothetically I'd
be willing to recognize she might be one
person in 10 million who really can't be
vegan now even if that was let's say
parallel universe let's say her and I
fell in love and we were still together
this day let's imagine I was in the
awkward position of being a vegan
activist married to someone who had a
health condition where they really
couldn't for their healthy vegan
ethically we
would still be in the position of saying
that she should be as vegan as possible
it wouldn't justify living a life of
flagrant relaxed media you like well she
has this awful health condition so she
eats a mostly vegan diet but for this
reason she has think that's one
supplement or this one thing whatever it
is you know most of us when we take
medicine even a vitamin pill most
medicines are not really entirely vegan
mentioned as before when I gave my
daughter vitamins as a tiny tiny baby I
tried to get the vitamins 100% vegan and
there were some things that couldn't be
had vegan so you know you're as vegan as
possible being as vegan as possible is
the ethos of being vegan we always said
I was in a bus today
I believe the tires and the bus were not
vegan so well don't think there a lot of
animal products and car tires if we're
gonna do say no no I'm gonna wait for a
vegan bus you've been waiting a long
time okay not as far as possible and
practicable right that ethical onus that
obligation is still on you and it would
still be on you if you're one of those
people so if you think about it in terms
of probability is it probable is it
possible that somebody somewhere needs
to eat some animal products for the good
of their health sure it's possible and
and the odds are it's not you and it's
not me either it's gonna be someone in
really extraordinary circumstances or
someone with with really extraordinary
health problems but the ethical
arguments don't rest on this kind of
probability if you drink milk from a cow
what are you paying for ethically you're
paying for an animal to live and die in
misery its whole life in a concrete shed
with a steel roof pulling on a floor or
living in confinement till one day
someone comes to slit its throat the cow
is impregnated again again the milk is
pumped out of its breast by a machine by
a robot it's it's demonic you know and
it's not like well if I buy this cow
milk there's a 50/50 chance it's
unethical
no there's a 100% chance that it's an
ethical probability is irrelevant
ecological responsibility what's this
cow milk doing in terms of air pollution
water use river pollution every cow has
got to eat food and it's got a poo and
it's generating manure all day every day
every cow like it or not
has got to be pumped full of antibiotics
there are a lot of other dimensions to
this a lot of other forms of social
responsibility that make this unethical
now optimal health is another
intentionally misleading lens to bring
to this ethical question optimal health
optimal if if someone told me that they
were in competition for the Olympics so
they needed to use some animal product
for their optimal health to be able to
compete at the same level as the other
as the other athletes optimal health
doesn't involve eating hamburgers it
doesn't involve eating cheese doesn't
involve eating cow milk if you look at
what guys who are really professional
bodybuilders eat the animal products in
their diet it's a very very strange diet
made up of things like arctic char you
know but even they even those guys most
of them really are not living in terms
of optimal health optimal health and
which is something that effects some of
the concerns way less than 1/10 of 1% of
the population optimal health do you
think do you think most astronauts
really live in terms of optimal you
think they never drink a beer
I think they never eat a hamburger and
then every pizza with cow cheese no
almost nobody is really living their
lives in terms of optimal health even
amongst athletes like professional
athletes even among so this is something
if you think about it in a probabilistic
way well if there was someone totally
devoted to their optimal health that
this would justify using some an apart
and then it's really it's at the
opposite end the extreme if there was
someone so crippled
so disabled by health condition that
they needed to eat animal products just
to survive okay on a probabilistic scale
whether it's one person in a million or
one in ten million okay none of these
things are gonna impact the ethical
argument or the ecological argument all
right in terms of what's really going on
here on the one hand I have a kind of
shallow scientific point to make and the
other hand to have a little bit more of
a profound and peculiar psychological
observation to offer you guys on the
psychological side a lot of people go
through two phases of their life a phase
of the life in which they question
Authority and reject the authority of
their parents and a phase of their life
in which they aspire to have the same
kind of authority that their parents
once had or that they imagine their
parents and grandparents once that is a
very fundamental pattern and people can
make that switch at any age doesn't
necessarily happen on your 38th birthday
or what have you and of course people
can get pregnant and have kids at almost
any age some people come parent very
young some very old what-have-you
for some people it's when they hit a
milestone like they have their first job
where they wear a suit wear a suit and
tie and where people call them sir
people call them man and they really
switch the way they think about
Authority and then they'll look back on
their own heritage and family and you
know what they've been taught including
what they've been taught about things
like eating meat and survival and
what-have-you
they look on tradition and they're
rolling it suddenly very differently
I knew a young woman who had just made
the switch she had decided to become a
career bureaucrat inside the Canadian
government and in her younger days she
had been a goth in high school in
college so she'd put a huge amount of
effort
despite the rules of the dress code at
her Catholic High School like the
Catholic High School allowed you to wear
boots as high as your knee so she wore
leather boots with a million holes going
although after a knee and you know she
wore black lipstick and white foundation
and black fingernails and whatsoever
thing but it was all within it was all
within the Catholic school dress code to
get rebelling against the gay and her
whole mentality was was defined in terms
of challenging Authority you know a she
was it was a form of teenage rebellion
and then she reached a point in her life
where she switched where she wanted to
become a conformist where she wanted to
become the authority figure that the
cheetah rebelled against and I hear this
I hear this in the voices of a lot of
the ex vegans not all not all there's an
african-american woman who made a video
about how how and why she quit veganism
and she actually describes to you that
for her a turning point was going and
spending more time with her grandfather
she's a middle-aged woman too and
feeling that she had to have respect for
the way her grandfather and her
ancestors survived and some notion of
sustainability and health and you know
she was setting out for you
psychologically all of the dominoes but
not really describing you the connection
whereby the dominoes fall and I'd say
about myself so I think I think I made
the kind of transition very very early
in life I think I was basically a child
where I realized the uselessness of what
people considered rebellion has just
cease to cease dangerous me maybe
because my parents idealized rebellion a
revolution but I can remember being at
my grandfather's house again maybe it
was because it was there that was really
thing in this way and my grandfather he
played that that grandfather he played
billiards he he owned his own billiard
table in the basement I never had any
interest in billiards snooker but I
remember to spend time with my
grandfather okay so I'm there and I'm
looking at the pool cue going over my
hand and just really it was the first
my noticed that I already had the hand
of an adult man I was really still Kip
you know I had the hair on the knuckles
and the shape and everything about me I
remember his looking at that and
thinking wow the period of my life where
people are gonna make excuses for me
being a dumb kid is over and the period
of my life when I'm gonna make those
excuses for myself it's over - you know
I was just looking at the shape of my
hand you know this is and you know
there's a lot that goes into that
including the awareness that for most of
human history men were joining the army
at 15 people were taking on serious
responsibilities we're going to
Parliament at 15 that stuff - you know
and I was in a society the kind of
infantilized people until much later so
look a lot of people flip this way and I
do think on a psychological level
somebody like Jacko wakow he has he has
just made a psychological flip from
wanting to challenge all of the
nonsensical excuses for eating meat that
his grandparents and parents and a
down-home and he's made the the flip to
exactly affirming that arbitrary and
authoritarian tradition and I think it's
no mystery he's a struggling young
father he's a father with a kid and he's
obviously got a drinking problem and in
some ways he's joking around in some
ways he's desperate to be taken
seriously he wants some kind of tone of
moral authority in his life and he's
scrambling around for that I don't think
he's aware of it I don't think he's
aware of the extent to which again you
can set it with the dominoes and not
exhibit why are the dominoes falling the
way that they are he doesn't want to be
a teenager anymore
shaking his fist at the establishment he
wants to be the establishment he wants
to be the authority figure and you know
the question of whether it's good or
evil whether it's good or bad to conform
depends entirely on what it is you're
conforming to I grew up in a culture in
a situation even as a middle-aged man in
Canada lived in a situation where I
really didn't have the option of can
no matter how eager I was to do so so to
make a long story short your guys if you
live in Canada and you want to learn
Cree in a g-way First Nations languages
you really don't have the option of
being a conformist even though believe
me when I signed up for that program I
was not there to rub battle against the
authority figures at university anyway
the minute you get there it's a struggle
and in fact you are in a struggle
against the authority figures you're on
that University that's the reality of
studying Korean Ojibwe and Canada I was
married to a professor there was no I
wasn't there to challenge anybody but
you get drawn so that's the kind of
thing depending on the society you live
in depending on the the political
structure of where and how you live sure
it's saddening and strange then to hear
his scientific line of reasoning which
is that if you haven't read the study
yourself how can you believe the
conclusion of the scientific research
and my experience is even more saddening
still you can talk to medical doctors
hundreds of them thousands of them who
look at these studies and only see what
they want to see they find a new excuse
for eating bacon or drinking bulletproof
coffee this is this is very widely
you know observed in religion at least
we can kind of talk about at least we
have a vocabulary to address this it's
called reading something with the eyes
of faith when people read a book with
the eyes of faith they don't really see
what's on the page and you can sit down
with a Christian I remember doing this
with a guy and ask him about the passage
where Jesus praised to destroy a tree
and then comes back and God destroys the
tree and he tells the reader he tells
the audience see that's how great prayer
is just pray for anything you want and
God will do it so if you're and he's in
the in the book if you're reading it
literally he's angry at the tree because
it wouldn't bear fruit out of season so
if you're if you're angry that mangoes
are out of season
God will destroy the tree view that's a
literal reading
passage now there obviously was intended
to be an allegory but if you're if
you're challenging a Christian who
believes in the Bible literally like we
try says think about oh you know think
about what this what this means like you
know why was this written this like you
know what do you think the more the
story is do you go around praying to God
to destroy a fruit tree you know like
let's let's judge a little bit and you
can't get them to do it you can't get
them to admit to you what it is they
just read or they just saw you know it's
it's kind of the most amazing thing they
read with the eyes of faith
now I've course experienced this with
Buddhism Hinduism you know be honest you
really of course my experience is
Pleasant and Hinduism I know really I go
to include communism communism also even
though it's not a religion it's just as
bad or worse you know getting communists
to admit what's written so clearly on
the page and what really happened in
history and so on there are deep deep
levels of denial and what have you I I
wish I could believe that the problem or
as simple as demanding that people read
the studies for themselves that's not
the problem and it's it's not the
solution either what you need precisely
is before you read to have an attitude
of Doulton people are raised to think
that doubt is a bad thing and that faith
is a virtue and that's the very opposite
of a fact okay in order to really be
able to challenge what it is you think
you know in order to really learn new
things before you come to the text you
have to have prepared yourself by
setting aside that whole mentality of
faith by instead looking at a text with
a profoundly open attitude of
uncertainty
as long as people are reading with the
eyes of faith it doesn't matter how many
books they read doesn't matter how many
scientific studies they read you can
lead them through a slaughterhouse and
witness the animals being slaughtered
and they'll think there's nothing wrong
with it
and that there's no suffering and
there's no harm being done for this book
morally positive this happens every day
people go on slaughterhouse tours and
continue eating beef it's not as simple
as that
people will read the studies and
continue to believe what they want to
believe okay it's precisely the
mentality of belief the principle of
faith the wanting that comes before
wanting to believe that's what you have
to try that's what you have to challenge
before you can have a meaningful
engagement with scientific research with
the text or even with the empirical
reality of what goes on in a
slaughterhouse itself